>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MAY 28:
PRESIDENT TRUMP RETURNS TO
WASHINGTON TO QUESTIONS ABOUT
HIS AGENDA AT HOME AND ABROAD.
JOHN F. KENNEDY'S LEGACY, 100
YEARS AFTER HIS BIRTH.
ALSO, THE ENDURING APPEAL OF
"SGT. PEPPER," ONE OF ROCK
AND ROLL'S GREATEST ALBUMS.
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THIS MEMORIAL DAY HOLIDAY
WEEKEND, ABOUT 40-MILLION
AMERICANS ARE TRAVELING AT LEAST
50 MILES OR MORE, ACCORDING TO
THE AAA.
MOST BY CAR, AND THREE-MILLION
BY PLANE.
NOW, NEW RESTRICTIONS ON PLANE
TRAVEL ARE IN THE WORKS.
HOMELAND SECURITY SECRETARY JOHN
KELLY SAID TODAY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION IS CONSIDERING A
BAN ON LARGE ELECTRONIC DEVICES,
INCLUDING TABLETS AND LAPTOPS,
ON ALL INTERNATIONAL FLIGHTS TO
AND FROM THE U.S.
A PARTIAL BAN NOW AFFECTS 50
FLIGHTS A DAY FROM TEN CITIES.
MOSTLY IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
KELLY ALSO SAID HE'S LIKELY TO
ORDER GREATER SCREENING OF
CARRY-ON BAGS, OFTEN OVERSTUFFED
BY TRAVELERS AVOIDING AIRLINE
FEES FOR CHECKED LUGGAGE.
>> WE'RE VERY DEFINITELY GOING
TO RAISE THE BAR IN TERMS OF
BAGGAGE SECURITY.
THE T.S.A. PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOOKING AT THOSE BAGS AS THEY GO
THROUGH THE SCANNER CAN'T SEE
EXACTLY WHAT'S IN THE BAGS, SO
NOW, BECAUSE THEY'RE STUFFED SO
FULL, NOW IN TERMS OF THE T.S.A.
PROCESS, THEY WILL ASK PEOPLE TO
OPEN THEIR BAGS SO THEY CAN LOOK
INSIDE.
>> Sreenivasan: FOLLOWING LAST
WEEK'S TERRORIST ATTACK IN
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND, KELLY SAID
EUROPE FACES A MORE IMMINENT
THREAT FROM ISIS OPERATIVES THAN
THE U.S.
>> WE HAVE THREATS ALL THE TIME,
NO, RIGHT NOW, SPECIFIC THREAT,
BUT THAT GOES TO THE FACT THAT
WE ARE OVER HERE AND NOT OVER
THERE.
THE FACT IS, THAT AS THE
CALIPHATE IS BEING DESTROYED
THAT IS SYRIA AND IRAQ, THERE
ARE LARGE NUMBERS OF RETURNING
FIGHTERS, WESTERN EUROPE, IN
MANY CASES LIKE THE GUY THAT DID
THIS THING IN MANCHESTER.
>> Sreenivasan: KELLY PLAYED
DOWN REPORTS OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S ADVISER AND SON-IN-LAW,
JARED KUSHNER, HAVING EXPLORED A
SECRET BACK-CHANNEL WITH RUSSIA.
KELLY SAID ANY CHANNEL OF
COMMUNICATIONS, "IS A GOOD
THING."
CONGRESSIONAL DEMOCRATS TODAY
CALLED FOR KUSHNER'S CONTACTS
AND SECURITY CLEARANCE TO BE
FULLY INVESTIGATED.
BRITISH POLICE ARRESTED A 12TH
PERSON TODAY IN THEIR
INVESTIGATION OF LAST WEEK'S
TERRORIST ATTACK ON PEOPLE
LEAVING AN ARIANA GRANDE CONCERT
IN MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
BRITISH AUTHORITIES HAVE NOW
RELEASED THESE IMAGES OF THE
ATTACKER, A BRITISH-BORN-AND-
RAISED SON OF LIBYAN IMMIGRANTS,
ON HIS WAY TO THE CONCERT SITE
WITH A BACKPACK BOMB.
POLICE SAY HE RETURNED TO
BRITAIN FROM LIBYA TEN DAYS AGO
AND LIKELY ASSEMBLED HIS BOMB IN
A RENTED APARTMENT IN
MANCHESTER.
THE EXPLOSION HE SET OFF KILLED
HIMSELF AND 22 PEOPLE, INCLUDING
SEVEN CHILDREN, AND INJURED MORE
THAN 100 PEOPLE.
BRITISH AIRWAYS RESUMED FLIGHTS
TODAY FROM LONDON'S TWO BUSIEST
AIRPORTS, HEATHROW AND GATWICK.
PASSENGERS BRAVED LONG LINES TO
CHECK IN FOR THEIR RE-BOOKED
FLIGHTS AFTER THE AIRLINE WAS
FORCED TO CANCEL HUNDREDS OF
FLIGHTS YESTERDAY DUE TO A
GLOBAL COMPUTER SYSTEM FAILURE.
MANY PASSENGERS HAD SPENT THE
NIGHT SLEEPING IN THE AIRPORTS.
THE AIRLINE BLAMED A POWER
SUPPLY PROBLEM FOR THE
DISRUPTION, AND C.E.O. ALEX CRUZ
APOLOGIZED TO STRANDED
TRAVELERS.
IN THE PHILIPPINES, AUTHORITIES
SAY AT LEAST 85 PEOPLE HAVE DIED
IN FIGHTING THIS WEEK BETWEEN
GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
THE FIGHTING BEGAN SIX DAYS AGO
IN MARAWI, A MOSTLY MUSLIM CITY
OF 200,000 PEOPLE IN THE
SOUTHERN PART OF THE COUNTRY,
WHERE MUSLIM SEPARATISTS HAVE
BEEN ACTIVE FOR DECADES.
THOUSANDS OF CIVILIANS HAVE FLED
THE CITY, MANY TELLING AID
WORKERS AT EVACUATION CENTERS
THEIR HOMES WERE DESTROYED.
MISSISSIPPI GOVERNOR PHIL BRYANT
CALLS LAST NIGHT'S MASS SHOOTING
THAT LEFT EIGHT PEOPLE DEAD A
"SENSELESS TRAGEDY."
IT HAPPENED 70 MILES SOUTH OF
MISSISSIPPI'S CAPITAL, JACKSON,
AS A 35-YEAR-OLD MAN SHOT HIS
VICTIMS IN THREE DIFFERENT
HOUSES.
A SHERIFF'S DEPUTY WHO RESPONDED
TO A 911 CALL WAS AMONG THOSE
KILLED.
POLICE SAY THE RAMPAGE MAY HAVE
SPARKED BY A DISPUTE BETWEEN THE
SHOOTER AND HIS WIFE AND IN-
LAWS.
THE ALLEGED SHOOTER TOLD THE
LOCAL NEWSPAPER, "THE CLARION
LEDGER," QUOTE "SUICIDE BY COP
WAS MY INTENTION."
THE TWO GOOD SAMARITANS STABBED
TO DEATH ON A TRAIN IN OREGON ON
FRIDAY HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED AS
53-YEAR-OLD ARMY VETERAN RICKY
BEST AND 23-YEAR-OLD REED
COLLEGE GRADUATE TALIESIN
MYRRDIN NAMAKI MECHE.
THE MEN HAD INTERVENED TO
PROTECT TWO WOMEN ON THE
RECEIVING END OF ANTI-MUSLIM
RANT ON A PORTLAND COMMUTER
TRAIN.
THE ASSAILANT WHO ALLEGEDLY
STABBED THEM AND IS NOW CHARGED
WITH MURDER IS 35-YEAR-OLD
JEREMY CHRISTIAN, A KNOWN WHITE
SUPREMACIST WITH A CRIMINAL
RECORD.
THE F.B.I. IS NOW WORKING WITH
PORTLAND POLICE TO INVESTIGATE
THE KILLINGS AS A HATE CRIME.
THE WAR IN AFGHANISTAN IS NOW
THE LONGEST IN AMERICAN HISTORY.
IT'S BEEN ALMOST 17 YEARS SINCE
THE UNITED STATES INVADED IN
RETALIATION FOR THE SEPTEMBER 11
TERRORIST ATTACKS CARRIED OUT BY
AL QAEDA, THE TERRORIST GROUP
HARBORED AT THE TIME BY THE
TALIBAN-LED GOVERNMENT.
TO DATE, 2,396 AMERICAN MILITARY
PERSONNEL, ALONG WITH 1,136
COALITION SOLDIERS HAVE DIED IN
THE WAR.
SO HAVE AN ESTIMATED 170-
THOUSAND FIGHTERS AND CIVILIANS
IN AFGHANISTAN AND PAKISTAN.
NOW, WITH THE TALIBAN HAVING
REGAINED CONTROL OF 40% OF THE
COUNTRY, THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION IS CONTEMPLATING
A SURGE OF 5,000 U.S. TROOPS TO
ADD TO THE OVER 8,000 STILL
THERE.
JOINING ME HERE TO DISCUSS THIS
IS BARNETT RUBIN, ASSOCIATE
DIRECTOR OF NEW YORK
UNIVERSITY'S CENTER ON
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.
HE PREVIOUSLY WORKED IN THE
OBAMA STATE DEPARTMENT.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
SO HOW DID WE GET HERE?
WHY 17 YEARS OUT ARE WE TALKING
ABOUT OUR ADVERSARY CONTROLLING
40% OF OUR COUNTRY?
>> WE NEVER REALLY DEFINED WHAT
WE WERE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH.
WE HAD A LONG LIST OF GOALS
WHICH WERE CAPTURING AND KILLING
TERRORISTS.
AND WE WERE NEVER EXACTLY
CLEAR WHERE THE BOUNDARY AROUND
THAT CATEGORY WAS AND TRYING TO
STABILIZE AFGHANISTAN, THOSE TWO
MISSIONS GOT IN THEIR WAY.
WE WERE DISTRACTED BY IRAQ.
WE NEVER REALLY HAD AN ADEQUATE
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THE
PROBLEM WAS, AND WE DID NOT PAY
ATTENTION TO THE REGION AROUND
AFGHANISTAN WHICH HAS CHANGED
VERY RADICALLY IN THE 16 YEARS
OR SO THAT WE HAVE BEEN
THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS LIKE
THERE ARE TWO GOALS NOW THAT ARE
COUNTERING EACH OTHER.
YOU CAN EITHER STABILIZE THE
COUNTRY OR ROAD OUT THE
TERRORISTS.
>> YOU CAN HAVE A PERMANENT U.S.
MILITARY PRESENCE THERE TO TRY
TO KEEP STRIKING AT TERRORISTS
AND OTHER ENEMIES AND SO ON IN
THE REGION OR YOU CAN TRY AND
STABILIZE THE COUNTRY.
BECAUSE THE COUNTRY CANNOT BE
STABILIZED WITH A PERMANENT
PRESENCE OF U.S. TROOPS BECAUSE
MOST OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE
REGION DON'T WANT US THERE AND
THEY LET US KNOW THAT BY
SUPPORTING THE TALIBAN.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DID THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION GET WRONG?
>> OF COURSE I WAS THERE.
IN MY OPINION, THE BIG MISTAKES
WERE, ONE, WHEN OBAMA ANNOUNCED
A TROOP SURGE, HE SHOULD NOT
HAVE GIVEN A DATE FOR
WITHDRAWING IT.
AND TWO, WHEN HE ANNOUNCED THE
TROOP SURGE THAT IS THE TIME HE
SHOULD HAVE MADE VERY
FAR-REACHING OFFERS OF
NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT.
UNFORTUNATELY OUR MILITARY AND
MANY OTHERS IN THE GOVERNMENT
BELIEVE YOU SHOULDN'T MAKE ANY
OFFERS OF NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENT
UNTIL YOU HAVE ALREADY SUCCEEDED
MILITARILY.
BUT THAT IS TOO LATE.
YOU HAVE TO DO IT WHEN YOUR
CAPACITIES ARE INCREASING.
I BELIEVE THEY ARE ABOUT TO MAKE
THE SAME MISTAKE NOW.
THEY'RE ABOUT TO ADD MORE
TROOPS AND THEN THEY SAY WHEN
THEY ARE STRONGER THEY WILL MAKE
SOME OFFER OF NEGOTIATION.
>> Sreenivasan: WOULDN'T THE
5,000 TROOPS MAKE A DIFFERENCE?
>> OF COURSE THE 5,000 TROOPS
WILL MAKE SOME DIFFERENCE BUT
THEY WILL MAKE ONLY A MARGINAL
DIFFERENCE.
THEY MIGHT STOP THE EROSION OF
THE STALEMATE AS IT IS NOW AS IF
YOU SAY, THESE ESTIMATES ARE ALL
VERY DUBIOUS BUT LET'S SAY THE
TALIBAN CONTROL APPROXIMATELY
40% OF THE POPULATION.
WELL, MAYBE WITH 5,000 TROOPS WE
COULD GET THAT DOWN TO 30% OR
25%.
THAT WOULD NOT BE DECISIVE IN
ANY WAY.
AND THEN OF COURSE OUR TROOPS
ARE NOT GOING TO BE THERE
FOREVER.
NO MATTER HOW MANY TIMES WE TELL
PEOPLE THAT WE'RE COMMITTED
EVERYONE KNOWS WE ARE NOT GOING
TO BE IN AFGHANISTAN LONGER THAN
THE AFGHANS SO THEY CAN WAIT US
OUT.
SO THERE IS NO ALTERNATIVE TO
WORKING TOWARDS A POLITICAL
SETTLEMENT NOT JUST WITH THE
TALIBAN BUT WITH THE COUNTRIES
OF THE REGION NOW, IMMEDIATELY.
>> Sreenivasan: WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT POLICY, WHAT ABOUT
THE PEOPLE ON THE GROUND
WHO ARE LIVING THROUGH THIS?
KIND OF SEESAW BETWEEN A LOCAL
OR PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT CONTROL
AND THEN BACK AND FORT TO
TALIBAN CONTROL? >> FROM THE
POINT OF VIEW OF THE PEOPLE IN
AFGHANISTAN THIS WAR HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR ALMOST 40 YEARS
SINCE THERE WAS A COUP D'ETAT IN
1978.
YOU GIVE THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE KILLED AND INJURED IN THE
LAST 16 YEARS, PEOPLE BELIEVE A
MILLION OR MORE PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED OVER THE LAST 40 YEARS
INCLUDING THE PERIOD OF THE
SOVIET INTERVENTION.
IT'S BEEN A TERRIBLE AGONY THAT
THE PEOPLE OF AFGHANISTAN HAVE
GONE THROUGH FOR A LONG TIME.
OF COURSE THEY HAVE BECOME QUITE
RESILIENT AND THOSE OF THEM WHO
AREN'T KILLED, FIND WAYS OF
ADAPTING BUT IT'S BECOMING MORE
AND MORE DIFFICULT FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: BARNETT RUBIN,
ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE NEW
YORK UNIVERSITY CENTER FOR
COOPERATION, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW MARKS
THE 100TH BIRTHDAY OF JOHN
FITZGERALD KENNEDY, THE
NATION'S 35TH PRESIDENT, WHOSE
TENURE WAS TRAGICALLY CUT SHORT
BY AN ASSASSIN IN 1963.
DESPITE ONLY THREE YEARS IN
OFFICE, J.F.K. CONTINUALLY
RANKS AMONG THE TOP TEN U.S.
PRESIDENTS IN POLLS OF
HISTORIANS.
AS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT JEFF GREENFIELD
REPORTS, KENNEDY'S DEATH HAS
GIVEN HISTORIANS ALMOST AS MUCH
TO STUDY AS HIS LIFE.
>> AND SO MY FELLOW AMERICANS,
ASK NOT WHAT YOUR COUNTRY CAN DO
FOR YOU, ASK WHAT YOU CAN DO FOR
YOUR COUNTRY.
>> Reporter: FOR MANY OF US, IT
IS AS STARK A MEASURE OF THE
PASSAGE OF TIME AS ANY.
COULD THIS SYMBOL OF A NEW
GENERATION REALLY HAVE BEEN BORN
A HUNDRED YEARS AGO?
COULD HE REALLY BE DEAD FOR 54
YEARS, EIGHT YEARS LONGER THAN
HE LIVED?
FROM A-HALF-CENTURY'S DISTANCE,
WE HAVE A CLEARER UNDERSTANDING
OF WHY HIS PRESENCE WAS SO
ARRESTING: THE HANDSOME WAR HERO
WITH A RADIANT WIFE AND YOUNG
CHILDREN WHO HELPED DEFINE HIM.
THE OLDEST PRESIDENT REPLACED BY
THE YOUNGEST EVER ELECTED, WHOSE
FLAIR AND WIT BECAME DEFINING
TRAITS.
>> YOU SUBJECT ME TO SOME ABUSE
BUT NOT TO ANY LACK OF RESPECT.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Reporter: BUT NOW, WE ALSO
KNOW THAT THE IMAGE OF THAT
IDEALIZED FAMILY CONCEALED A
PRIVATE LIFE FAR DIFFERENT.
HISTORIANS DEBATE HIS SOMETIMES-
CONTRADICTORY LEGACY.
HE RAN FOR PRESIDENT AS A COLD
WARRIOR AND RAMPED UP U.S.
MILITARY PRESENCE IN VIETNAM.
BUT IN THE LAST YEAR OF HIS
LIFE, HE CALLED FOR AN END TO
THE COLD WAR.
>> WE ARE BOTH DEVOTING MASSIVE
SUMS OF MONEY TO WEAPONS THAT
COULD BE BETTER DEVOTED TO
COMBAT IGNORANCE, POVERTY, AND
DISEASE.
>> Reporter: AND HE SIGNED A
NUCLEAR TEST BAN TREATY WITH
MOSCOW.
HE PRESIDED OVER ATTEMPTS TO
BRING DOWN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
OF FIDEL CASTRO.
BUT DURING THE CUBAN MISSILE
CRISIS, WHEN THE SOVIETS PLACED
MISSILES 100 MILES FROM
FLORIDA'S SHORE, HE REJECTED THE
MILITARY OPTION TO REMOVE THEM
AND MAY HAVE AVERTED WW-III.
HE WAS AT FIRST A RELUCTANT
CIVIL RIGHTS WARRIOR, BUT IN THE
LAST YEAR OF HIS LIFE HE
COMMITTED TO A LANDMARK BILL
THAT BANNED RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION IN PUBLIC PLACES
AND THE WORKPLACE, THOUGH THIS
WOULD HAVE JEOPARDIZED HIS RE-
ELECTION.
>> WE CHOSE TO GO TO THE MOON IN
THIS DECADE AND DO THE OTHER
THINGS, NOT BECAUSE THEY ARE
EASY, BUT BECAUSE THEY ARE HARD.
>> Reporter: AND HE SET THE
NATION ON A PATH TO WIN THE
SPACE RACE.
DESPITE WHAT HE DID IN LIFE, THE
SHOCKING MANNER OF HIS DEATH AND
ITS AFTERMATH MAY HAVE HAD AS
GREAT AN IMPACT.
HIS ALLEGED ASSASSIN WAS A
VIOLENCE-PRONE FORMER MARINE AND
SELF-TAUGHT MARXIST.
BUT FOR MANY, THE RESPONSIBILITY
WAS ELSEWHERE.
THIS WAS SUPREME COURT CHIEF
JUSTICE EARL WARREN AT THE
CAPITOL MEMORIAL SERVICE.
>> WE DO KNOW THAT SUCH ACTS ARE
COMMONLY STIMULATED BY FORCES OF
HATRED AND MALEVOLENCE, SUCH AS
TODAY ARE EATING THEIR WAY INTO
THE BLOODSTREAM OF AMERICAN
LIFE.
>> Reporter: THERE WAS SOMETHING
OF A CONSENSUS THAT SOMETHING
HAD GONE WRONG, TERRIBLY WRONG
IN THE COLLECTIVE SOUL OF THE
COUNTRY, WHERE OPTIMISM AND
CONFIDENCE HAD ALWAYS BEEN AT
THE CORE OF OUR OUTLOOK.
MOREOVER, IT SEEMED IMPOSSIBLE
TO BELIEVE THAT THE MOST
POWERFUL PERSON ON EARTH COULD
BE BROUGHT DOWN BY A SINGLE,
INSIGNIFICANT FIGURE.
INSTEAD, CONSPIRACY THEORIES
BLOOMED IN BEST-SELLING BOOKS
AND POPULAR MOVIES, POINTING TO
A CABAL OF SHADOWY, POWERFUL
FIGURES IN THE MILITARY-
INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX.
AND TO THE EXTENT THAT AMERICANS
EMBRACED SUCH THEORIES, WHAT DID
IT SAY ABOUT HOW MUCH TRUST
SHOULD BE PLACED IN THE
LEGITIMACY OF THE AMERICAN
SYSTEM?
THAT KIND OF DOUBT GREW DEEPER
AND WIDER IN THE LATE-1960S-WITH
THE DIVISIVE AND COSTLY VIETNAM
WAR, RACIAL UNREST IN THE
CITIES, GENERATIONAL UPHEAVAL ON
CAMPUS AND THE ASSASSINATIONS OF
JFK'S BROTHER, ROBERT, AND
MARTIN LUTHER KING JR.
A DECADE AFTER KENNEDY'S DEATH,
AFTER VIETNAM AND WATERGATE, THE
PERCENTAGE OF AMERICANS WHO HAD
TRUSTED THEIR GOVERNMENT IN
WASHINGTON TO DO WHAT WAS RIGHT
DROPPED BY MORE THAN HALF.
NO ONE CAN SAY WHAT WOULD HAVE
BEEN DIFFERENT IF PRESIDENT
KENNEDY'S LIFE HAD NOT BEEN CUT
SHORT.
HIS INGRAINED CAUTIOUSNESS MIGHT
HAVE MADE HIM LESS AMBITIOUS
ABOUT LAUNCHING A WAR ON POVERTY
THAN HIS SUCCESSOR, LYNDON
JOHNSON.
BUT THAT SAME CAUTIOUSNESS-- AND
HIS SKEPTICISM ABOUT THE
MILITARY'S JUDGMENT, AFTER THE
BAY OF PIGS AND THE CUBAN
MISSILE CRISIS, AS WELL AS HIS
LONG-HELD DOUBTS ABOUT FIGHTING
A LAND WAR IN ASIA -- MIGHT HAVE
MADE HIM PULL BACK FROM THE
VIETNAM COMMITMENT HE'D MADE IN
HIS FIRST YEARS.
PERHAPS HIS EXTRAMARITAL AFFAIRS
WOULD HAVE BECOME PUBLIC AND
THREATENED HIS POLITICAL
SURVIVAL.
WHAT DOES SEEM CLEAR IS THAT HIS
DEATH DRAINED SOMETHING OUT OF
THE AMERICAN SPIRIT; MADE US
LESS CONFIDENT, LESS CERTAIN.
IF THAT COULD HAPPEN IN BROAD
DAYLIGHT IN THE STREETS OF A
CITY, MAYBE WE WEREN'T THE
COUNTRY WE THOUGHT WE WERE.
>> Sreenivasan: 50 YEARS AGO
THIS WEEK, THE BEATLES RELEASED"
SERGEANT PEPPER'S LONELY HEARTS
CLUB BAND."
FROM ITS COVER TO ITS 13 TRACKS,
"SERGEANT PEPPER" REDEFINED THE
ALBUM AS AN ART FORM AND ROCK
STARS AS ARTISTS.
TO COMMEMORATE THE ANNIVERSARY,
UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP HAS
RELEASED A DELUXE BOXED SET
INCLUDING A STEREO REMIX,
OUTTAKES AND ALTERNATIVE TRACKS,
AND A DOCUMENTARY ABOUT HOW THE
ALBUM WAS MADE.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT ALISON STEWART
SPOKE WITH MUSIC WRITER ANTHONY
DeCURTIS ABOUT "SERGEANT
PEPPER'S" IMPACT AND INFLUENCE.
>> SERGEANT PEPPER'S CHANGED 00
LOT ABOUT THE WAY MUSICIANS WERE
TREATED HOW THEY WERE SEEN AND
ALSO, HOW ALBUMS WERE MADE.
FILL IN THE BLANKS.
>> WHEN SERGEANT PEPPER CAME OUT
IT ALTERED THE IDEA OF HOW
PEOPLE THOUGHT ABOUT ROCK
MUSICIANS.
IT WAS A SERIOUS BID FOR BANDS
LIKE THE BEATLES AROUND
CERTAINLY THE ROLLING STONES
AND BOB DYLAN OF COURSE TO BE
PERCEIVED AS ARTISTS.
THE MUSIC INDUSTRY WAS DRIVEN BY
SINGLES, PRETTY MUCH UP TO THAT
POINT.
AND YOU'D SAY THAT WAS GREAT,
YOU HAD A HIT LAST MONTH WHAT'S
YOUR NEXT SONG?
THE BEATLES WENT OFF THE ROAD
AND DECIDED THEY WERE GOING TO
WORK IN THE STUDIO AND THEY
TOOK FULL ADVANTAGE OF THAT.
AND WHEN SERGEANT PEPPER
DROPPED IT WAS JUST
CATACLYSMIC.
IT WAS THE SOUNDTRACK FOR WHAT
BECAME THE THE SUMMER OF LOVE
AND IN MANY WAYS THE ANTHEM OF
THE SUMMER OF LOVE
WHAT WOULD YOU THINK IF I
SANG OUT A TUNE
WOULD YOU STAND UP AND WALK
OUT ON ME
>> IT WAS A GENERATIONAL
DIVIDING LINE ALSO.
THOSE WERE THE DAYS OF DON'T
TRUST ANYONE OVER 30.
AND THERE WAS A SENSE OF
PSYCHEDELIC DRUGS COMING ON THE
SCENE.
WHEN YOU COME TO THE LINE, I GET
HIGH WITH A LITTLE HELP FROM MY
FRIENDS, THE BEATLES STATING
THAT SO DIRECTLY IN A SONG, ON
ONE OF THEIR RECORDS, WAS SO
MASSIVE.
NOBODY DENY THAT NOW BUT IT WAS
LIKE OKAY, THEY'RE ON OUR SIDE.
>> LUCY IN THE SKY WITH
DIAMONDS LSD.
>> IT WAS REALLY A SENSE OF KIND
OF SOUNDS SILLY NOW, BUT IT WAS
A SENSE OF LIKE ENVISIONING A
UTOPIA.
THERE WAS A REAL SENSE THAT A
KIND OF REVOLUTION OF
CONSCIOUSNESS WAS TAKING PLACE
AND SERGEANT PEPPER BECAME THE
SYMBOL OF THAT.
LUCY IN THE SKY WITH
DIAMONDS
>> ANOTHER THING I THINK IS
REALLY INTERESTING ABOUT THE
ALBUM, YOU REALLY DON'T SEE IT
NOW VERY MUCH.
LISTENING TO AN ALBUM IN ITS
ENTIRETY RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
IT'S BECOME FASHIONABLE AMONG
CRITICS TO SORT OF OVER THE
YEARS POOH POOH SERGEANT PEPPER
A LITTLE BIT, I PREFER REVOLVER
OR I PREFER RUBBER SOUL, BUT
WHEN YOU ARE ASSESSING AN ALBUM
AND WHETHER OR NOT IT WAS THE
BEST, THOSE ALBUMS WERE GREAT
BUT THEY DIDN'T ALTER THE
CULTURE.
SERGEANT PEPPER ALTERED THE
AND ONE OF THE WAYS IN WHICH IT
DID WAS IT WAS VERY MUCH A
PIECE, A CONCEPT ALBUM,
WHY WASN'T THAT ON THE ALBUM,
PENNY LANE?
THE BEATLES WANTED TO STEP
BACK.
BEFORE SERGEANT PEPPER, ALBUMS
WERE, NOW YOU HAD A HIT SINGLE,
PUT TEN OTHER SONGS ON, WE'LL
SELL IT AS AN ALBUM.
THE BEATLES DIDN'T WANT TO DO
THAT.
IT'S LIKE, WELL, WE PUT OUT
THOSE SONGS.
SERGEANT PEPPER IS GOING TO BE
COMPLETELY NEW, THAT'S PART OF
ITS IMPACT.
IT SOUNDED SO FRESH.
>> IS THERE ONE SONG ON THE
ALBUM YOU FEEL IS IMPORTANT, OR
ONE THAT MADE A REAL DIFFERENCE
IN THE WAY THAT MUSIC MOVED
FORWARD?
>> I THINK "A DAY IN THE LIFE"
WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT.
>>  I READ THE NEWS TODAY
OH BOY
ABOUT A LUCKY MAN WHO MADE
THE GRADE
>> IT'S A BRILLIANT KIND OF
COLLABORATION BETWEEN LENNON
AND McCARTNEY.
LENNON KIND OF DOCUMENTING THE
MEANDERINGS OF HIS OWN MIND,
FRIEND OF HIS WHO DIED, THESE
LITTLE NEWS ITEMS BUT AT THE
SAME TIME, YOU HAVE A SENSE OF
SEEN FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF
LIKE A YOUNG PERSON AT THAT
TIME, JUST LIKE SOMEHOW ALL OF
THIS IS GOING TO DISAPPEAR, YOU
KNOW, AND WE'RE GOING TO ENTER A
NEW AGE.
THAT SONG CONVEYS THAT VERY
POWERFULLY I THINK.
>> TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS BEING A
RECORD THAT SIGNALED THAT THE
BEATLES WEREN'T GOING TO TOUR
ANYMORE.
>> SO THE BEATLES SANG, YOU
KNOW WE GO PLAY OUR SHOWS,
PEOPLE ARE SCREAMING ALL THE
TIME.
THEY'RE NOT LISTENING TO THE
MUSIC.
WE CAN BARELY HEAR OURSELVES.
WE'RE GOING TO GO INTO THE
STUDIO.
THAT REALLY UPPED THE STAKES FOR
THEM.
IT WAS A DARING MOVE AND IT
ALSO CREATED AN OKAY WHAT ARE
YOU GOING TO COME UP WITH THEN
IF YOU ARE GOING TO BE FOCUSING
SO MUCH ON THIS KIND OF PRIVATE
WORLD?
AND IT WAS VERY INTERESTING
BECAUSE SERGEANT PEPPER OF
COURSE OPENS WITH SOUNDS OF
CROWDS LISTENING TO A BAND.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE THEY'RE KIND OF
RECREATING IN SOME SENSE THE
COMMUNALITY OF A LIVE
PERFORMANCE EXCEPT IN THE
STUDIO.
IT WAS 20 YEARS AGO TODAY
THAT SERGEANT PEPPER LEARNED
TO PLAY
>> HE LEARN SOME SONG WE CAN
PLAY ON THE ROAD.
WITH ALL THE ORCHESTRATIONS
CERTAINLY LIKE THEN WOULD HAVE
BEEN VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO
PLAY LIVE.
GETTING BETTER ALL THE TIME
BETTER BETTER BETTER
>> JOHN PAUL GEORGE AND RINGO
WERE IN THEIR 20s WHEN THEY
MADE THE ALBUM.
THE SURVIVING MEMBERS ARE IN
THEIR 70s.
DOES SGT. PEPPER STILL HOLD UP?
>> IT DOES.
WHEN YOU HEAR THE ALBUM NOW, IT
PACKS A LOT OF POWER.
IF YOU TAKE THE TIME TO LISTEN
TO IT, IT'S TRANSPORTING, AND
IT'S MEANT TO BE A JOURNEY.
WHEN YOU START WITH THE
SERGEANT PEPPER THEME AND END
WITH A DAY IN THE LIFE, YOU
REALLY GET THERE, YOU FEEL LIKE
YOU'VE JOURNEYED AND TAKEN A
TRIP AND I THINK THE BEATLES
VERY CONSCIOUSLY INTENDED THAT.
>> ANTHONY DE CURTIS.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> IT WAS A PLEASURE, ALLISON.
>> Sreenivasan: MUSICIAN GREGG
ALLMAN, THE LEAD SINGER AND CO-
FOUNDER OF THE ALLMAN BROTHERS
BAND, DIED YESTERDAY FROM
COMPLICATIONS OF LIVER CANCER,
AT THE AGE OF 69.
IN 2012, THE NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY
BROWN SAT DOWN WITH ALLMAN TO
DISCUSS HIS STORIED CAREER.
IN THIS EXCERPT, ALLMAN REVEALED
HIS DOUBTS ABOUT HIS CHANCES TO
BECOME A ROCK STAR.
>> Reporter: THERE WAS, HOWEVER,
A REALISTIC STREAK IN YOUNG
GREGG ALLMAN.
HE WRITES THAT HE HAD ACTUALLY
INTENDED TO GO TO COLLEGE AND
MEDICAL SCHOOL.
>> I MEAN NO PUN, BUT EVERYBODY
AND THEIR BROTHER HAD A DAMN
ROCK AND ROLL BAND.
>> Reporter: SO YOU'RE LOOKING
AROUND SAYING--
>> I AM, YES.
>> Reporter: WE'RE NOT GOING TO
MAKE IT HERE.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE RENT
DOING THIS.
MY BROTHER SAID, "BUT, NO, MAN,
WE'RE GOING TO BE THE BEST.
WE'RE GOING TO BE NUMBER ONE."
>> Reporter: IN 1971, THE
ALLMANS RECORDED WHAT IS WIDELY
CONSIDERED THE FINEST LIVE ALBUM
EVER MADE, "AT FILLMORE EAST."
IT WOULD BE THEIR TICKET TO
STARDOM.
BUT JUST THREE MONTHS AFTER ITS
RELEASE, DUANE ALLMAN WAS KILLED
IN A MOTORCYCLE CRASH IN THEIR
ADOPTED HOME OF MACON, GA.
>> WELL, MY BROTHER DIED.
AND THEN IT JUST STARTED RAINING
MONEY.
AND, AT FIRST, YOU KNOW, I
SCREAMED AND YELLED AND SHOOK MY
FIST AT THE SKY AND YELLED,
SHORTCHANGED.
>> Reporter: THE BAND MEMBERS
DEBATED WHETHER TO CONTINUE.
>> I TOLD THEM, I SAID, WE'RE
GOING TO BE THE WIND-UP BUNCH OF
STREET JUNKIES, OR WE CAN FORGET
ALL THAT CRAP AND GO BACK TO
BUSINESS AS USUAL.
AND IT WAS PRETTY MUCH A
LANDSLIDE.
WELL, IT WAS.
>>YOU CAN SEE ALL OF JEFFREY
BROWN'S INTERVIEW AND READ
ABOUT GREGG ALLMAN'S MUSICAL
LEGACY AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY,
JAPANESE RACE CAR DRIVER TAKUMA
SATO WON TODAY'S 101ST RUNNING
OF THE INDIANAPOLIS 500.
HE TOOK THE LEAD ON THE 195TH OF
200 LAPS AND HELD OFF THREE-TIME
WINNER HELIO CASTRONEVES BY TWO-
TENTHS OF A SECOND.
SATO IS THE FIRST ASIAN DRIVER
TO WIN THE RACE.
NEW ZEALAND'S SCOTT DIXON, WHO
HAD THE FASTEST QUALIFYING TIME,
WENT AIRBORNE IN A CRASH, AND
WALKED AWAY UNINJURED.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.